Practical A: GPIO:Light the LED with Python

Wiring up your Circuit:
1. Connect the GPIO22 (i.e. Physical Pin 15) Pin od raspberry pi to one end of the resistor.
2. Connect another end of resistor to the positive end (anode) of LED
3. Connect the negative end (cathode) of LED to Ground of raspberry pi.
4. Then Power on your raspberry pi

Software Guide:
Raspbian OS comes with many preinstalled programming environments. Here we will be using
Python for coding.
9 EDKITS ELECTRONICS
To open Python, click on the application Menu, navigate to Programming, then click on Python 3
(IDLE) an Integrated Development Environment for Python 3. After opening the IDE, go to files and
open new file to start your code.





Practical B: Displaying different LED Patterns with Raspberry Pi

Wiring up your Circuit:
We are using SPI protocol for wiring LED matrix module to raspberry pi, since it reduces the number
pins required for wiring the circuit. You can follow the diagram given below while wiring your circuit.
1. Connect the VCC pin of 7219 driver board to Pin2 of raspberry pi.
2. Connect the Gnd pin of 7219 driver board to Pin6 of raspberry pi.
3. Connect the DIN pin of 7219 driver board to Pin19 of raspberry pi.
4. Connect the CS pin of 7219 driver board to Pin24 of raspberry pi.
5. Lastly, connect the CLK Pin of 7 219 driver board to Pin23 of raspberry pi.





Practical C: Displaying Time over 4 Digit 7 Segment Display using Raspberry Pi

Wiring up your Circuit:
Hook up your circuit as follows:
1. Connect the Pin2 (5V) of Rpi to Vcc pin of Module
2. Connect Pin 6 (GND) of Rpi to GND of Module
3. Connect Pin38 (GPIO20) of Rpi to DIO of Module
4. Lastly connect Pin 40 (GPIO21) of Rpi to CLK of Module

Software Guide:
1. Now to download libraries, open Web Browser on your Raspberry Pi and log on to the
following link: https://github.com/timwaizenegger/raspberrypi -examples/tree/master/actor -led-7segment-4numbers. 
Click on the actor-led-7segment-4numbers.zip folder and Now click on Download Button to download the file.
2. Now on your rpi move to /home/pi/Downloads/ location to find the zip file downloaded.
3. Unzip the file and try to execute the different example codes present in that folder in Python
2 Idle.
4. Now open Python 2 Idle, create a new file, write the code given below and save it in the
same folder i.e. actor-led-7segment-4numbers since the code below is depended on
tm1637.py file which is present in the same folder.





Practical D: GPS Module Interfacing with Raspberry Pi

Wiring up your Circuit:
1. Connect the VCC Pin of GPS Module to 3.3V Pin of USB to TTL converter
2. Connect the GND Pin of GPS Module to GND Pin of USB to TTL converter
3. Connect the Tx Pin of GPS Module to Rx Pin of USB to TTL converter
4. Connect the Rx Pin of GPS Module to Tx Pin of USB to TTL converter.
5. Lastly connect the USB to TTL converter to USB port of Raspberry Pi.

Software Guide: 
GPS CMD COMMANDS TO RUN

ls /dev/ttyUSB*
ls /dev/ttyUSB0
sudo cat /dev/ttyUSB*
press ctrl+c 
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gpsd gpsd-clients python-gps
sudo gpsd /dev/ttUSB0 -F /var/run/gpsd.sock
cgps -s





Practical E: Interfacing Raspberry Pi with Telegram App

Steps:
Step 1: Install Telegram on Your Phone, Obviously
Step 2: Text /newbot to BotFather: To obtain a bot account, text him /newbot. (you need the slash '/' in front) He will then ask a couple of
questions. I call my bot "Led”. You will see why in a few moments. But you can give it any name you want.
At the end of process, you will be given a token, something like 123456789:ABCdefGhIJKlmNo-
PQRsTUVwxyZ. This token represents the bot account. You are going to put this token on the Pi.
Step 3: Install Telepot on Raspberry Pi: On the command line, run these two commands:
sudo apt-get install python-pip
sudo pip install telepot
Step 4: Step 4: Test Token: In the Python interpreter, enter these three lines;
import teleport
bot = telepot.Bot('*** copy bot token from botfather ***')
bot.getMe()
Step 5: Python code?: will be given by clg.





Practical F: RFID Module Interfacing with Raspberry Pi

Wiring up your Circuit:
1. Connect TX pin of Module to Rx Pin of USB to TTL converter
2. Connect the GND Pin of Module to GND Pin of USB to TTL converter
3. Connect the positive of 5V external supply to VCC pin of module.
4. Connect the negative/GND of 5V external supply to GND of Module
5. Finally connect the USB to TTL converter to USB of raspberry Pi
6. Connect the green LED to Pin37 of raspberry Pi
7. Connect the red LED to Pin35 of raspberry pi
8. And connect the buzzer to Pin33 of raspberry Pi.

Software Guide:
After connecting the Module to raspberry pi via USB to TTL converter, check for the port number to
which it is being connected by following command: ls /dev/ttyUSB*
Now open Python 2 Idle and write the following code and test the working of RFID